README.md, before:

# Space Invaders
by; Moein Ghorbanali, Arina Shahbazi, Oguzhan Ersoy

This is a Simple Space Invaders game using Vanilla Js :)

We use Vscode and liveserver to play, but any JS web development enviroment that can run a local server would be fine.

## Running the Game Using Live Server in VSCode, used the addon default instructions and added our notes to make it easier

Step by step instructions in VSCode(in any OS, our team has 1 Windows user, 1 Mac user and 1 Linux user :)
1. Open Visual Studio Code.

2. If you haven't installed the Live Server extension, go to the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X), search for `Live Server` by Ritwick Dey, and install it.

3. Open the workspace or folder containing the game files in VSCode.

4. Right-click on the `index.html` file in the Explorer view and select `Open with Live Server`. Alternatively, you can use the live server button in the status bar of VSCode(at the very bottom of the UI) while you are on any js or html file.

5. A new browser window should open displaying the game. If it doesn't, open your preferred web browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/index.html`.

6. Enjoy the game! If you want to stop the server, you can use the button in the status bar again.

Commit message:

Tutorial is reactive, boss fires back, gameover and restart bugs fixed.
Tutorial waits for players to use all the tools explained in the prompts now.

README.md, after:

# Space Invaders
by; Moein Ghorbanali, Arina Shahbazi, Oguzhan Ersoy

This is a Simple Space Invaders game using Vanilla JS :)

We use Vscode and liveserver to play, but any JS web development enviroment that can run a local server would be fine.

## Running the Game Using Live Server in VSCode, used the addon default instructions and added our notes to make it easier

Step by step instructions in VSCode(in any OS, our team has 1 Windows user, 1 Mac user and 1 Linux user :)
1. Open Visual Studio Code.

2. If you haven't installed the Live Server extension, go to the Extensions view (Ctrl+Shift+X), search for `Live Server` by Ritwick Dey, and install it.

3. Open the workspace or folder containing the game files in VSCode.

4. Right-click on the `index.html` file in the Explorer view and select `Open with Live Server`. Alternatively, you can use the live server button in the status bar of VSCode(at the very bottom of the UI) while you are on any js or html file.

5. A new browser window should open displaying the game. If it doesn't, open your preferred web browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5500/index.html`.

6. Enjoy the game! If you want to stop the server, you can use the button in the status bar again.


## Game Explanation

"Space Invaders" is a classic arcade-style game implemented using Vanilla JavaScript. The game is set in space, and the player controls a spaceship with the goal of defending Earth from waves of alien invaders.

### Gameplay

The player can move their spaceship left and right along the bottom of the screen and can fire projectiles upwards to destroy the alien invaders. The aliens move back and forth across the screen and gradually descend towards the player. The player's goal is to destroy all the aliens before they reach the bottom of the screen.

Each wave of aliens is more challenging than the last, with the aliens moving faster and the player having less time to destroy them. The game also features boss enemies that are more difficult to destroy and can fire projectiles back at the player. Boss also instakills the player if it reaches them.

The player's score increases for each alien destroyed, and the game ends when the aliens reach the bottom of the screen or the player's spaceship is hit by an alien projectile.

### Controls

- D or Left Arrow: Move spaceship to the left
- A or Right Arrow: Move spaceship to the right
- W or 1: Fire a projectile
- 2 or Q: Fire the weak laser that consumes a small amount of energy
- 3 or E: Fire the strong laser that consumes a larger amount of energy

### Tutorial
Waits for you to press a button, use the prompted button to continue (learning the game!)

Enjoy the game and try to beat your high score!
